docs(s2s VPN): add HA/multisite content (#6484)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/site-to-site-vpn/reference-content/ha-multisite-configurations.mdx

---
title: Site-to-site VPN high availability and multi-site configurations
description: This page provides additional information to deploy high availability and multisite setups using Scaleway Site-to-site VPN.

> tags: s2s vpn multisite ha resiliency redundancy multisite setup deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: s2s vpn multisite ha resiliency redundancy setup deployment
```
multi multi

dates:
  validation: 2026-05-06
  posted: 2026-05-06
---

import singleNoHA from './assets/scaleway-vpn-single-no-ha.webp'
import singleHA from './assets/scaleway-vpn-single-ha-2-1.webp'
import singleCrossHA from './assets/scaleway-vpn-single-cross-ha-2-2.webp'
import multiHA from './assets/scaleway-vpn-multi-2-2-2.webp'

> Site-to-site VPN allows you to set up high availability and multi-site deployments by creating VPN gateways in different Availability Zones of a Region for a given Private Network. 

Reviewer 2: That sentence does not sound natural to me, I suggest this change if it fits for you: Site-to-site VPN allows you to set up high availability and multi-site deployments by letting you deploy VPN gateways across multiple Availability Zones within a Region, all attached to the same Private Network.

> Site-to-site VPN allows you to set up high availability and multi-site deployments by creating VPN gateways in different Availability Zones of a Region for a given Private Network. 

Reviewer 2: Since you use AZ in the following paragraphs, I would write Availability Zones (AZ) for this first occurence.

> Site-to-site VPN allows you to set up high availability and multi-site deployments by creating VPN gateways in different Availability Zones of a Region for a given Private Network. 

Author: ```suggestion
Site-to-site VPN allows you to set up high availability and multi-site deployments by letting you deploy VPN gateways across multiple Availability Zones within a Region, all attached to the same Private Network.
```

> Adding redundancy with a second VPN gateway eliminates single points of failure for critical infrastructure. You can then connect several discrete infrastructures to set up large-scale multi-site deployments.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if the meaning of "discrete" here is clear for everyone. Maybe juste "separate" or "distinct" would fit. (but you know better the level of the audience for that doc)

Author: ```suggestion
Adding redundancy with a second VPN gateway eliminates single points of failure for critical infrastructure. You can then connect several distinct infrastructures to set up large-scale multi-site deployments.
```

## Single site configuration without redundancy

> The schema below represents a simple Site-to-Site VPN configuration between a VPN gateway attached to a Private Network in a single Availability Zone on the Scaleway side, and connected to a customer gateway in a single remote infrastructure. This setup does not offer high availability, as the connection has no redundancy.  

Reviewer 2: Too much verbosity in this sentence, I had to read a few times to understand. Suggestion: In this configuration, a VPN gateway in a single Availability Zone connects to a customer gateway in a single remote infrastructure.
This applies for the other sentences with the same structure.

> The schema below represents a simple Site-to-Site VPN configuration between a VPN gateway attached to a Private Network in a single Availability Zone on the Scaleway side, and connected to a customer gateway in a single remote infrastructure. This setup does not offer high availability, as the connection has no redundancy.  

Author: ```suggestion
 In this configuration, a VPN gateway in a single Availability Zone connects to a customer gateway in a single remote infrastructure.
```

  <Lightbox image={singleNoHA} alt="A schema of a simple Site-to-Site VPN configuration without redundancy." />

## Single site configuration with redundancy on Scaleway side

The schema below represents a Site-to-Site VPN configuration between two VPN gateways in two AZs, attached to a single Private Network in a single VPC on the Scaleway side, and connected to a customer gateway in a single remote infrastructure. This setup offers high availability on the Scaleway side.  

  <Lightbox image={singleHA} alt="A schema of a single customer site configuration with redundancy provided by two VPN gateways in different AZs for the same Private Network on Scaleway side." />

> ## Single site configuration with crossed redundancy on both Scaleway and client side

Reviewer 2: You talk about "customer" elsewhere. Would it be relevant to keep this word throughout rather than 'client" ?

> ## Single site configuration with crossed redundancy on both Scaleway and client side

Author: ```suggestion
## Single site configuration with crossed redundancy on both Scaleway and customer sides
```
